hello it's ruvi and today i'm going to
be doing a very
very highly requested video people have
been asking me to do this video for
years and years that is how do i write
essays today i'm going to be walking you
through an essay that i'm writing
and showing you how step by step i
actually plan and write an essay this
video is also very kindly sponsored by
studiosity
so studiocity is a 24 7 on demand
platform for students
where you can get help from subject
specialists and people who
are very familiar with academic writing
there is a connect live service but the
really cool thing
is that essay feedback service so you
can submit an essay and then get
feedback on your essay so the essay that
i write today i will be submitting to
studios tea
okay i've got my mug of tea very
important
i'm also going to light this new candle
pumpkin scented which is
wonderful
okay so the first step is to actually
decide the essay i'm going to write the
essay that i'm going to be writing today
is not one that i've been
set as like a formative or um for an
exam or anything
it's just an essay i'm writing for
practice and so
i'm not actually sure what i want to
write this essay on
okay so we are heading over to nation
[Music]
okay so i just went through all of my
class notes and
weekly notes on notion and wrote a list
of just two or three things that i found
really interesting when we were learning
about that book
this is something i mean to do during
the year i think it's a good thing to do
as you go along
so here we go here are all of the
[Music]
things i found interesting per week just
a few quick notations
as i said this essay isn't a an actual
assessment but i'm going to show you
what i do if it were an assessment
so this is an example of what one of the
pages will look like
i have a place where i will put my pdf
submission when i actually submit it
then there's space for the questions the
question i'm going to do
the assessment criteria and also just
the key information like word count
etc i've now narrowed it down to two
choices and so i'm going to make a mind
map of both of these
essay topics and see what i have most to
say about
[Music]
i will just take out my white lines note
paper uh so i separate the page into
two sections as you can see and then i
basically just brainstorm the kind of
thing that i would want to write about
if i did do this essay this is not a
space for polished ideas it's just
getting me to think
and see which one i'm actually most
interested in
and so i'll write my main point in one
color and then
in another color i will make more
thoughts on that main point
and usually through doing this i will
decide which essay i want to write
because one of them will always be more
exciting to me
[Music]
i've decided to focus on huck briefing
and particularly
the visuality of the performances at the
king and the duke baton like how does it
actually look to people going to see it
focusing on something a bit smaller when
i'm writing an essay because otherwise
you
can't go into the same amount of depth
now that i've got this
very very messy plan like this is really
really bad it's very messy it's very
ill-formed
i'm now going to take my academic
planner and i
will use one day in the academic planner
to
write down all of the things i need to
do for this essay i always do this my
big project
keeps everything in one place because
then i can find this to-do list really
really easily when i need it
okay so if you're wondering what is on
this to-do list the first thing is to
write a brief essay plan or notion then
i will find critical essays which i want
to read i will read those essays
then i will pad out my paragraphs using
this additional information
and make them into full paragraphs i
will write my introduction and
conclusion next
then i will just do some research then i
will just do some extra research in
cases anything which i think
needs a little bit more information
okay so now we're going to transfer this
onto a notion page
[Music]
okay so now getting started on writing
that initial essay plan
the first thing i will do is write my
thesis statement and my introduction
this is not what it's going to look like
the whole time like i will go back and
write this introduction again
but i just like to have something to
start with
okay so the first thing i do is write my
thesis
this is what i'm planning on arguing in
the essay and i know that this might
change over the course of the essay but
it's just good to kind of have an idea
of where i'm going in particular
this section is important when you go
into writing an essay i think it's
really key to have an idea of what
you're arguing because
otherwise you could write a paragraph
and it could just not link to anything
and then you might have to cut it later
so
um this sentence is really important
because this is what my
argument is okay so as you can see here
i've just gone one
two three for my paragraphs so i'm going
to write
that up here okay so
here i'm just writing each of those main
points into a separate toggle
so that i can separate the essay and
make it look more manageable
so i went through each of my paragraphs
and just noted down my point and also
how it linked my argument
one thing which is so easy to do is go
off on a tangent and end up not actually
answering the question that you set for
yourself
and then i just bullet pointed the key
things that i wanted
to discuss in each of those paragraphs
once i've made those bullet points i
like to just go through and formulate it
into a coherent
argument essay paragraph structure so i
will just move around those bullet
points
this is literally just a list of ideas
which have been coherently strung
together
into the bare frames of an argument
okay i've now come up with all of my
ideas for each paragraph
and it changed a lot from my thesis in
the 20 minutes i was working on that so
now
now i'm going to take these smaller
points so
jim's blue face paint um the fact that
he twain portrays him as silly
and that huck doesn't think it's amusing
these are going to be three separate
points which i will
do by toggles i do love a good toggle so
i'm gonna do
[Music]
i'm just gonna copy these in and then i
will just write each of these as a mini
[Music]
paragraph
so at this point i will go through my
essay and i will just make a little
comment next to anything which i think
needs
a critic or i need to you know look into
this a little bit more and look at what
scholars are saying about it already
one thing to bear in mind as well is
that whenever i approach an essay i do
have some
critical knowledge of the text already
i've usually read at least
like five or six critical essays just to
kind of get an idea of the text
i don't like to go into it completely
blind i want to have some kind of an
idea of what the scholarship is saying
okay i've just gone through and found
critics
for this particular essay i'm not doing
loads of research because
it's just a practice essay but
these are the three essays i've
referenced and so i've just put
a link so i can easily get to the source
quickly
and yeah that means that my plan is done
which is very cool and
i'm not going to write it right now i
think i'm going to write it tomorrow i
usually like to give myself a little bit
of time between doing the plan and
actual
actually writing the essay so that i can
come to it with
a fresh perspective so i'm going to
leave this for now and i will see you
tomorrow
[Music]
okay so now it is the next day and i'm
actually getting started on
writing the essay so i will write my
essay
in bullet points again this just makes
it manageable i think one of the really
important things about essay writing is
making it as manageable as you can
because essays are daunting they are
like really really daunting to approach
but if you break it down then you make
it much easier and so you can get it
done more quickly
i like to write my essay in bullet
points and then string those bullet
points together because
for me writing bullet points is a lot
less formal and so i don't think
so much about what i'm writing i don't
worry so much about it and i can always
go back and change it if there is
something which is a bit too informal so
um yeah that's something i really
recommend doing i often find that
when you write your asset plan you feel
like you've covered all bases and you
don't need to do any more research
and then when you come to writing it you
start coming with this point and you
realize oh gosh i
really wish i knew a little bit more
about this i think i need to research
this i think i need to read a bit about
this and so
i usually find that when i'm writing the
essay it's very much broken up by
more research and reading as things come
up as and when i need them
okay here i am i've written my first
paragraph
and i'm just gonna close that now
because i don't get distracted by this
last paragraph i want to move on to
doing the second one
so when jim dresses up as king lear um
i've got my ideas all ready to go and
i'm just going to write this up
[Music]
i have anything i want to use as a
footnote i will just put it in
square brackets as you can see um
and then i can add those in later
because i'm doing this on notion i can't
put footnotes in at this point so i just
do them in square brackets so i can come
back to them and put them in later i do
like to use footnotes in my essay
an additional snippet to make your point
even if it's not directly relevant for
me getting in the mode of the essay is
really important too
um if that sounds silly like uh just
kind of
letting yourself flow with it a bit i
really think it's a great idea to
aim to write quote unquote a bad first
draft because it will always be better
than you think it will be
and it gets that first really high
resistance step
out of the way and if that's a way to
help you get over that activation energy
of resistance then
definitely definitely let yourself write
something bad
[Music]
yeah here is my essay it's all just
broken up into
[Music]
these and i'm going to leave it here for
now i've got a few
last minute things i need to just brush
up on i leave axes
in my essays which is basically where i
know i want to come back and add
something in so
i will go have lunch and then come back
and add in those exes and then i will
submit it to studiosd
[Music]
so now i'm just transferring my essay
from notion on to google drive
i like google drive for formatting i
also don't have word
i'm just putting my footnotes in as you
can see i had
them all characterized already and i
always always use that align
function thing when i format my essay
because i hate documents which are not
aligned it really really bugs me that's
one of my pat peeves
now i'm just going through formatting it
making sure it's all okay
[Music]
i would go through and cut out
paragraphs and cut out sections if this
were an actual essay and i had a word
count because i always go over the word
count but
since this one is just one for this
video i
don't have to do that the final step is
actually reading my essay aloud and
proofreading it i always read it aloud
just to see
that it reads okay and that it's
engaging and
that the words i've used fit i've only
done one round of proofreading
for this essay because i've literally
just written this essay for this video
but
if this were an actual essay i would be
proofreading it for days and days and
days
many many times proofreading is so
important okay there we go
i have just gone through read aloud to
make sure that i
like how it sounds that it all flows
okay and usually if this were a
submitted essay i would be going over it
a lot
a lot more i'd go through it maybe like
five or six times but
i'm not gonna do that for this one
because it's a practice essay and i just
wanted to show you how i write one i am
going to
submit this to studios t now to get some
feedback on this essay because
the number one thing which is important
when it comes to essays is getting
feedback and seeing how you can improve
next time and
studios t is a great way to do this
because you can submit your essays and
then you can get feedback on them
so loads of university students have
access to studios
without realizing it and one of the best
bit is that you can actually submit a
summative assignment
for feedback from cdst before you submit
it properly
okay so i'm submitting my essay to
studios just giving a little bit of an
overview of the task that i've been set
and then you can see that you've got an
option to select the things that you
want to be graded on so i've selected
structure choice of language and
spelling and grammar okay it's now 4 30
and i received an email back from
studios t at
four it's you're supposed to get your
feedback within 24 hours but i literally
got my feedback in two hours which
is so much quicker than i was expecting
this is the feedback i got
basically studio rc provides feedback on
your academic writing more than
the content of your piece which means
that you can use this when you're
submitting
summative assignments whenever i get
feedback on an assignment i
always write up my feedback because i
want to make sure that i
make this feedback actionable i make
goals for my feedback so that i
will not make that same mistake again
and
i would really recommend this it means
that you can improve your academic
writing going forwards
so thank you so much to studio steve for
sponsoring today's video and
thank you so much for watching it i hope
that you enjoyed it i hope that you
found it helpful
people have been asking me to share how
i write essays for
years and years and years so hopefully
this was helpful
um anyway thank you so much for watching
and i hope that you have a productive
week
[Music]
you